┌────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Acoustics in the perspective of a linguist │
└───────────────────────────────────20221226─┘

?. Sapir-Whorf and the modern practice of music
As we have seen, the current theory of music - established since the classical period - is heavily rooted in the equal 12-tone division of the octave. Yet, the discussion of alternative tunings is not only set back two centuries, but also remain in the fringe. 
On one hand, far too many musicians are accustomed to thinking in 12 instead of in the infinite harmonic series. 
On the other hand, many speakers of a particular language are accustomed to thinking "in the structure of their language", instead of in a holistic worldview. 
In lingustics, Sapir-Whorf (more accurately, linguistic relativity) has been suggested as a weak limiting factor for human cognition.
Could it be "acoustic relativity" that limits the potential of human musical expression?
The vast predominance of western tuning creates an apparent "strengthening" of acoustic relativity. Compare this to linguistic relativity, which exhibits a weaker form in bilingual and polylingual people. Nevertheless, we eventually see people more open to non-classical musics after long periods of listening, which shows that acoustic relativity is not that strong at all.

?. Xenharmonics is to artificial language creation, as music is to language
We see great overlaps in between the constructed language community and the xenharmony community. The main causes are:
1. Appreciation of other cultures
2. Rejection of the status quo in expression
3. Fulfilling the desire to say beyond what is possible to say 
4. Fictional world building

below this line is trash but i can still fix it later
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
0. Disclaimer
Forgive me, for I am a musician, not a linguist (I would not refer to myself as such), and so the title is bait. But after meeting so many great people on the fields of linguistics and acoustics, be it theoretical or practical, here I elevate myself to the rank of honorary linguist. Also, this is mainly about tuning.

1. History
The story follows thus, from the ancients to the medievals to the classics to the modern.
Plucking a taut string near the bridge produces a sharp sound with a rich spectrum. This spectrum peaks at the harmonics of the fundamental wavelength.

